The third Conference on Scientific Miracles in the Quran and Sunna,  
organized from 17 to 19 September by the Faculty of Sciences of the University Abdelmalek Essaadi (UAE), 
ended Sunday in Tetouan. The participants, including many thinkers and researchers from the Arab and Muslim 
world Muslim world specialists in the history of Islam, have discussed for three days, the various aspects 
of scientific miracles of the Qur'an and the Sunna and the link between scientific thought and faith, 
as well as research in the field of scientific discoveries of the Quran and the Sunna. They also reviewed 
the latest the latest developments in the field of scientific miracles, calling for mutual understanding 
between understanding between researchers and those interested in scientific miracles all over the world 
in order to communicate and communicate and coordinate this science and exchange experiences and knowledge 
in this field. The participants, including researchers from Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Algeria, Jordan, 
Turkey, Palestine and the United Arab Emirates have, moreover, called for cooperation with all organizations 
interested in the interested in the miracle in the scientific fields, medicine and medical sciences, 
life sciences and life sciences and embryology, earth sciences, physical sciences, astronomy, language 
legislation, history, economics, humanities, social and psychological sciences. Among the participants 
were Zaghloul An-Najjar, (Egypt) and Mohammed Musa Al-Sharif (Saudi Arabia) who made a presentation 
on the theme "The impact of scientific miracles on urban and cultural development", and Dr. Ragheb Sergani, 
an Egyptian thinker and historian specializing in the history of Islam. To recall that the first national 
conference on scientific miracles in the Quran and Sunna was organized by the Faculty of by the Faculty 
of Sciences of the UAE, in June 2005, and had then advocated the holding of such a conference at the Maghreb 
scale in Tetouan in 2007.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
An international training session on the scientific miracle in the Quran and the Sunna, 
organized by the International Commission of the Scientific Miracle of the Holy Quran and the Sunna (CIMSCS) 
in coordination with the Islamic Studies Department of the Faculty of Letters and Humanities of the University
 Mohammed V - Agdal, began Friday in Rabat
This training session, which will continue until 19 current, will be marked by the organization of conferences
 supervised by researchers specializing in the field of scientific miracle in the Quran and Sunna, which will 
 floor on a series of topics related to the standards and methodology of the miracle while highlighting its 
 various aspects in many areas of knowledge.
In a statement to the press after the opening session of this session, the Secretary General of the CIMSCS, 
Mohamed Al Mosleh said that this meeting is "an invitation to encourage the energies within the Ummah 
to innovation and creativity in order to make its contribution to human civilization.
The scientific miracle in the Holy Qur'an and Sunnah is a proof contained in the Holy Qur'an and Sunnah 
to encourage minds to innovate, he said, adding that "in the era in which we live, we must resort to scientific 
evidence to justify each issue of concern to us in order to learn the lessons that are necessary.
For his part, the president of the field of Islamic studies in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities, Jamal Saidi 
stressed that this first specialized scientific session aims to implement a complementarity between science and 
theology and deepen the debate on scientific standards and methodology adopted in approaching issues of 
scientific character.
He noted that this training session aims to achieve these objectives through the examination of the manner 
in which topics related to the scientific miracle in the Qur'an are addressed, highlighting the positive 
aspects and identifying the negative points in order to overcome them, in addition to exploring this cognitive 
field in light of the challenges facing the Islamic Ummah.
For his part, the Minister of Communication, Government Spokesman, Mustapha El Khalfi, considered that the 
field of research on the scientific miracle in the Quran is a subject of exploration for researchers in different 
disciplines of knowledge, warning against the adverse effects due to "scientific errors and abusive projections 
that do not serve the research on the inimitability of the Quran. He also called for "an innovative and open 
knowledge" able to be subjected to criticism and evaluation.
In addition, other speakers including the Secretary General of the Ministry of Higher Education, Scientific 
Research and Executive Training, Abdelhafid Debbagh, the President of the University Mohammed V-Agdal, Wael
 Benjelloun and the President of the Local Council of Ulemas in Rabat, Abdellah Guedira, welcomed this initiative, 
 stressing the importance of organizing such meetings in scientific research in the field of inimitability of the 
 Holy Quran.
The program of this edition, which take by Moroccan and foreign academics, specialists in religious sciences,
 provides several axes, including "Al Ijaz Al Ilmi and modern challenges", "foundations of geology in 
 the Qur'an", "Al Ijaz Al Ilmi and the creation of Man", and "indices of Al Ijaz Al Ilmi and Assunna Annabawiya:
  the case of the establishment of the Zakat".
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is not a joke. An international congress on scientific miracles in the Qur'an and Sunnah was held 
from May 5 to 7 at the Tetouan Convention Center. For its 7th edition, the congress was placed under the 
abracadabra theme of: "the miraculous globality of the Koran as a main factor in the construction of the human
 being". The event is initiated, with the utmost seriousness, by the Instance for Scientific Miracles in the 
 Quran and Sunna of northern Morocco, a group of "scientists and researchers, the majority of whom are from 
 the University Abdelmalek Essaadi of Tetouan," according to the site of the instance.
The program has seen the interventions of a pleiad of specialists in the Quranic miracle from Egypt, Algeria, 
Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Tunisia. Moroccan university executives also took part in the event: the president 
of the University Abdelmalek Essaadi, the director of the Islamic University of Al Imam Mohamed Bin Saud 
(Saudi Arabia), the dean of the Faculty of Legal, Economic and Social Sciences of Tetouan, the dean of the 
Faculty of Letters and Humanities as well as the president of the municipality of the city of Tetouan.
During the three days, this beautiful world has discussed issues related to this theme. In the section 
devoted to the family and comparative Islamic jurisprudence, they talked about the "legal miracle in 
the prohibition of the fiancé from seeing his fiancée", "the legal miracle that allows the husband to
 have a hand in the divorce", or "the legal miracle in the matrimonial prohibition induced by co-nursing". 
 The forum for scientific miracles in the Qur'an and Sunnah goes further. In the section dedicated to science, 
 these ulema talked about the "scientific miracle of sleeping on the right side", or the "necessity of sleeping
  on the right side". or "the need to return to Islamic jurisprudence in food".
The participants in this meeting were also able to address other topics, more down to earth,
 such as "mathematical and technical aspects of Islamic finance.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In a room at the Faculty of Science and Technology in Fez, a large audience listens to Zaghloul Ennajar. 
Described as an "authority" in the Muslim world, this Egyptian professor of geology is touring the universities 
of Morocco to explain the scientific miracles of the Koran. "There is not a single scientific discovery that does
 not have a trace in the Koran," he postulates during this conference organized on April 14.
Fourteen centuries old, the Koran becomes in his hands a book of physics, chemistry, biology, geology, 
astronomy, medicine... Zaghloul Ennajar is one of the most famous spokesmen of al îjaz al îlmi 
(scientific miracles), the Muslim adaptation of Christian concordism, a religious exegesis tending to reconcile 
the texts of the Bible and scientific knowledge. At the age of 85, Zaghloul has been applying this recipe to 
the Quran for decades.
Like other concordists, he claims that the Qur'an spoke of black holes that would not be discovered until the
 20th century. And like them, he points to the Attakwir sura as proof: "I swear by the stars that disappear, 
 run and clean! By the night when it comes! And by the dawn when it breathes! This is the word of a noble 
 messenger.
This is a distortion of the sura, according to the Tunisian physicist Faouzia Farida Charfi, who gives the 
recognized translation in her book La Science voilée: "I swear by the planets that retrograde, running sometimes 
and sometimes eclipsing by the night with its invading shadows, by the dawn with its diffuse light, in truth it 
is the word of an imminent messenger.
In her book, Faouzia Farida Charfi dismantles, with scientific evidence, the allegations of the concordists. 
And their methodology: "In the concordism, we divert both science and religious texts.

The white beard in collar, the serious mine, Zaghloul Ennajar spins out, this April 14, other scientific 
discoveries announced by the Koran, like the existence of seven lands and seven skies which make the world. 
"The geologist says that this is a scientifically established fact, without giving any further details. "Sir,
 you are addressing students and academics, you must cite your references," said a student, irritated by the 
 lack of any evidence advanced by the academic.
Passionate about science and astrophysics, Najib El Mokhtari, a personality known in the world of the Web, 
has blown that day questions to members of the audience in Fez to nail the beak to the preacher. Unaccustomed 
to being questioned in this way, Zaghloul ignored the intruders. He later wrote on his Facebook page that these
 somewhat persnickety students are just a handful of "bad guys who do not represent Moroccans.
Zaghloul is used to addressing audiences in Arab countries who are in favor of al îjaz al îlmi and whose 
applause is a substitute for action. An îjaz îlmi that is also increasingly popular on the benches 
of Moroccan universities, where other spokespersons for concordism are received with honors by university 
professors.
Thus, the Abdelmalek Essaâdi University in Tetouan has been hosting an international congress on concordism 
every year since 2005, where students, researchers and teachers are all ears to the speeches on the scientific 
miracles of the Koran. "We try to work in an academic way," says Mohamed Bourbab, professor of biology and 
organizer of the meeting. He is also president of the "Eajaje Northen Morocco", a showcase of îjaz in northern 
Morocco, whose purpose is to disseminate concordist theses.
Academic, really?
Bourbab, a convert to concordism, uses the famous example of the formation of the embryo, which he supports 
with a verse from the Koran taken from the Sura of the Resurrection, which has become an element of language 
among concordists by dint of its use. "The West, he says, only discovered the stages of formation of the embryo 
in the 19th century. Humanity considered that the embryo was created by the man or by the woman, or from 
menstruation", continues our interlocutor wrongly. However, an ovum is needed to create an embryo, an ovum that 
the Koran does not mention, but this does not seem to disturb the biologist. From hard science to economics, 
there is only one step that he has taken to immerse himself totally in concordism.

During the 7th Congress on Scientific Miracles in the Qur'an and the Sunna, which was held last May in Tetouan, 
a dozen theologians from Egypt, Tunisia, Algeria and Qatar responded to the call of Mohamed Bourbab. The main 
theme? The economic miracle. In front of an audience of students, supporters of the îjaz argued that Islamic 
finance, a late discovery under our skies, exists in the Koran for fourteen centuries.
"These are free sessions for the benefit of students of the polydisciplinary faculty of Tetouan," boasts Mohamed 
Bourbab, organizer of the conference. From science to Sharia "There is a disturbing craze for concordism. All the
 more worrying that the conferences are aimed at science students, who are used to laziness by encouraging them 
 to seek science in the Koran," said a researcher.
Especially since concordism is a preaching that does not bear its name, a kind of "daâwa new wave" which, under 
the cloak of science, justifies the application of the Sharia. This is the case, for example, when Zaghloul 
Ennajar decrees that women are more exposed to ultraviolet rays than men. He naturally deduces that women must 
wear a veil to protect themselves from misogynistic rays.
The same goes for inheritance, where our gurus demonstrate that women have scientifically what they deserve, 
and that there is therefore no inequality between men and women on this issue.
These preachings are reminiscent of the fashionable discourse of the concordists at the time of the outbreak 
of the financial crisis in 2008, who shouted from the rooftops that "the Koran forbids usury and interest", 
a prohibition that would have saved us from the crisis if it had been respected. Another "miracle" was the 
use of prophetic medicine, a "link" between scientific medicine and the truths included in the Koran and the 
Sunna, to find cures. Among the diseases that can be treated with plants and prayer, incurable cancers!
The Wahhabi soft-power "During the 1970s, with the arrival of Wahhabism and television, concordism took on a 
considerable dimension. There are not only websites, but institutions too, in Egypt and Saudi Arabia," explained 
Faouzia Farida Charfi in 2013. Over the years, Wahhabism has spread its web over Morocco as well, under the guise
 of concordism.
Saudi and Egyptian sheikhs, who set foot in Morocco to profess their science, all gravitate to the International 
Commission for Scientific Signs of the Quran and Sunna, a Mecca-based body founded by the Islamic World League 
and funded primarily by Saudi Arabia. One of its missions is "to make the scientific miracle of the Qur'an 
and the Sunnah a means of preaching".
This Commission of Scientific Signs, which serves as an arm in faculties throughout the Muslim world, has a 
branch in Morocco, long headed by Driss Kharchaf, a doctor of computer science. A stooge considered the initiator 
of concordism in the kingdom. Author of Darwinism between the Koran and science, where he simply refutes the
 theory of evolution, the man thus spreads the creationist thesis defended by the Saudi gurus of the commission.
"Since the 1980s, I began to work on the mathematical analysis of the Koran and I found things that had never 
been revealed before," says Driss Kharchaf. For example, "encryption, which is popular in the computer world,
 exists in the holy book. It is with encryption that we decipher Alif, Lâm, Mîm", says this academic. This is 
 what reveals the scientific degree of this research.
Let it not matter! Kharchaf was rewarded by the Mecca Commission for all his work by being entrusted with a chair,
 created within the University Sidi Mohammed Ben Abdellah in Fez. A chair called soberly 'Al îjaz al îlmi in the 
 Quran and Sunna and personal development'. "We created it in 2010 in coordination with the Commission 
 of Scientific Signs in the Qur'an and the help of the University of Fez," admits his sidekick Said El Maghnaoui,
  Kharchaf's successor at the head of the chair and who teaches Islamic studies at the Faculty of Arts.
It is a mobile chair that addresses students as well as researchers in several cities, mainly in Fez, Tangier,
 Tetouan and Marrakech. Dozens of events are organized in the framework of this chair. It must be said that 
 the expansion of the Concordist daâwa through university education is one of the fundamental objectives of 
 the international commission based in Saudi Arabia.

 And it works more and more in Morocco. Proof of this are the solicitations that rain down on Driss Kharchaf. 
 "After my voluntary departure from the faculty of Agdal, in Rabat, I was asked to give courses in concordism, 
 which I did voluntarily," he says. And that's not all: the Commission on Scientific Signs in the Qur'an and 
 Sunnah has been working since its inception to make concordism an academic subject recognized by universities 
 in the same way as mathematics, biology and physics.
In Morocco, the craze for concordist lectures given to students and researchers led Said El Maghnaoui to gather
 a team of teachers and inspectors to concoct textbooks parallel to those of the National Education. 
 "The project has been underway for several years, I hope it will succeed. Of course, the goal of these manuals
  will not be to replace those of the Ministry, but to help students to assimilate their courses in the light 
  of our manuals, "says the teacher. Of course.
This entryism with Wahhabi tints does not seem to alert the Department of Higher Education and even less 
the Ministry of Habous. The Higher Council of Ulemas even hosts, in its premises, activities of the chair 
of the University of Fez on concordism and puts his hand in his pocket to accommodate the speakers. "We have 
recently organized two activities with the Council of Ulemas of Tangier, including one in April. We decided 
to make it an annual event," says Said El Maghnaoui.
The theme of the meeting is in the air of time: the scientific concordance between the environment and the Koran.
 "It is related to the COP22," adds El Maghnaoui. As for the international conference held at the University 
 Abdelmalek Essaâdi, it is funded in part by the municipality of Tetouan and the region Tangier-Tetouan-Al 
 Hoceima. "They take care of accommodation for guests. It does not exceed 60,000 dirhams for the municipality 
 and the region funds us for a similar amount, "said the president of the authority Eajaje Northen Morocco, 
 Mohamed Bourbab. "On the other hand, the Council of Ulemas no longer wants to be associated with our events, 
 fearing the image of a Wahhabi influence," says Bourbab, also a member of the PJD.
"It is not the Ministry of Habous that organizes these events," said a source in the department of Ahmed Toufiq.
 Contacted by TelQuel, Houdaifa Ameziane, the president of Abdelmalek Essaâdi University, a stronghold of the
îjaz in the kingdom, told us from the outset that he could not receive us, because he did not have details 
on the concordist events held in his university. "Look, I have 82,000 students and 1,000 teachers from all 
sides. I was not appointed to the presidency to conduct a witch hunt.
These are teachers, Moroccans, who have their beliefs, I do not have to decree what is good and what is not,
"he enthused. "If it was something malicious, they would have been contacted by the authorities. We are in a 
democratic country that accepts all points of view, it was not me who recruited them, they are officials who 
organize demonstrations that the authorities are aware of, "he adds.
In short, everyone is passing the buck. Meanwhile, the îjaz is making its way through the country's universities 
and media, as well as in bookstores. At the last International Book Fair in Casablanca, concordist works 
represented the vast majority of religious publications. "More and more books deal with the scientific signs
 of the Koran and their success is growing," says Bassam Al Kurdi, from the Arab Cultural Center and a good 
 connoisseur of the publishing world.
"Instead of looking for meaning in the holy book, they look for scientific evidence. And if science is wrong, 
which is not excluded, how can we justify the scientific miracle whose veracity has been proven by the Koran? 
"Mustapha Bouhandi, a researcher and specialist in comparative religions, wonders.
"Curiously, this concordist approach has never existed in the Islamic tradition at the time when it was
scientifically creative (whether during the optical revolution with Ibn al-Haytham, eleventh century, with the 
creation of algebra by Al Khawarizmi, ninth century, or through the accumulation of astronomical observations 
from the ninth to the sixteenth centuries or even with the invention of the experimental method with Ibn 
al-Haytham, eleventh century)," notes the radio France Culture in a program devoted to the subject in 2013.






